.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one.
.\" --------------------------------------------------------------------------
.TH "CONFETTI" "3" "April 8th 2025" "Confetti 0.5.0"
.SH NAME
conf_get_root \- top-level pseudo directive
.\" --------------------------------------------------------------------------
.SH LIBRARY
Configuration parser (libconfetti, -lconfetti)
.\" --------------------------------------------------------------------------
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.B #include <confetti.h>
.PP
.BI "const conf_directive *conf_get_root(conf_unit *" unit ");"
.fi
.\" --------------------------------------------------------------------------
.SH DESCRIPTION
The \fBconf_get_root\fR() function returns a pseudo directive representing the top-level of the Confetti configuration unit.
The pseudo directive returned is associated with \fIunit\fR and is freed when it's released with \fBconf_free\fR(3).
.PP
The pseudo directive never has arguments.
It is intended to be used with \fBconf_get_directive\fR(3) and \fBconf_get_directive_count\fR(3) for iterating the top-level directives of the Confetti configuration unit.
.\" --------------------------------------------------------------------------
.SH RETURN VALUE
A pseudo directive representing the top-level of the Confetti configuration unit or NULL if \fIunit\fR is NULL.
.\" --------------------------------------------------------------------------
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR conf_get_directive (3),
.BR conf_get_directive_count (3)
.\" --------------------------------------------------------------------------
.SH LICENSING
Confetti is Open Source software distributed under the MIT License.
Please see the LICENSE file included with the Confetti distribution for details.
